We've seen alerts.
Now let's look at another JavaScript function.
A confirmation.
Again, let's start with a simple HTML page.
Let's have a button.
This time onclick let's say getConfirmation() function, which we still need to define in JavaScript.
So let's now define this getConfirmation function.
We've gotta include JavaScript within script tags.
We've gotta tell JavaScript we're defining a function with the "function" keyword, getConfirmation.
I've typed "confirm" on the screen - where did that come from? Well, that is just a JavaScript function.
I mean, these JavaScript functions
you'll just learn as a programmer over time, you'll just start remembering what these function names
are.
But this one is called "confirm", so I haven't coded anything around confirm - this is inbuilt.
And let's just ask the user, do you want to continue?
Shall we give this a go
and see what happens?
So we should see a button.
When we click the button, which should be displayed with a confirmation dialog box.
Confirm button.
Ah, let me just get rid of that semicolon.
This is not JavaScript, this is just HTML. There is the Confirm button. When I click it,
"Do you want to continue?"
And it's literally asking me, OK or Cancel.
But now if I click OK or Cancel, nothing happens. Let's try and figure out
how to code something if I click OK?
How would we do that?
Let's go back to the code.
We've got this confirm dialog box, and what JavaScript does is we can actually store the OK variable,
the outcome of whether the user clicks OK or Cancel, into a variable.
And we're going to get into variables in the very next section so hold tight.
It just means a container of where we can store information.
So let's stored it in a variable called, um, decision.
So the users decision is going to be stored, and that value will depend on whether they've
clicked yes (OK) or no (Cancel).
And now we can code something. Let's code something with an IF statement and again, IF statements
we're going to get into later.
I just want you to get a feel for how we can start working with these kind of JavaScript events.
And before I finish coding here, remember how we've been through the different data types in JavaScript.
And this is why data-types are important. This confirm dialog box, if the user clicks yes (OK), it returns
true, and if the user clicks no (Cancel), it returns false.
This is just how JavaScript has built this function into its code.
So what we can say, is we can say if the decision equals true,
let's document.write the user
wants to continue.
Else,
and this is if the decision is false,
let's write,
the user is scared and does not want to continue.
I hope even though you don't fully understand the syntax yet, you can kind of see, you can kind of follow
what it is I'm trying to do.
The first thing we've done is we've created a button and that button does nothing until the user clicks
it.
That's what this "onclick" means. When onclick is ... clicked, when that event is fired, the parser is going
to see this function, getConfirmation, and it's going to then find this function,
It's going to know it's JavaScript
because we've put it in the script tag.
It's going to find that getConfirmation function and execute it.
It's going to say, okay cool, let decision equals confirm
Do you want to continue?
When it sees the confirm, it knows that that's a function, so it's going to execute it.
And then if the user clicks yes (OK), it's going to return a true boolean, and we're going to write this
to the screen.
And if the user clicks Cancel, it's going to be false.
So this isn't going to be true and then this will be displayed on the screen.
Let's see it in action.
So there's our Confirm button. Click it. Do you want to continue? Let's say no. The user is scared, and does not
want to continue.
Perfect.
Let's refresh the page.
Let's try again.
Click the button. Let's say OK ... the user wants to continue. It works.
I hope you're getting a feel for this,
how cool it is and awesome and intuitive.
Let's continue.